I want to tell the story about my grandmother,
my paul,
my bottom line,
my mother's mother.
Every year we make offerings to remember her passing away.
There are no photos of me as a child in vietnam.
When i asked mom what was she like?
She tells me stories of maya paul.
I was like walker,
they say,
because she was always carrying me on her heat.
My cousin's one sport herb.
If they came with real rich crane,
it looks so amazing.
Student once cut it.
The last time she held me,
i was too.
Just before my family left vietnam.
We left on a boat.
Dead was the ship's mechanic mom dead,
and three young children under four made it to hong kong before arriving in australia in
nineteen eighty one.
Mum burns paper painted in gold and silver leaf to send away for our ancestors.
My grandmother passed away.
Mom,
not outside our flat,
making us more fine.
A tin can.
I cried because i was very sad for my mother.
During that week,
a large dark butterfly appeared in our flat,
resting on the ceiling.
When she was alive,
grandmother taught her kids she would return as a butterfly.
Mom tells us the butterflies,
our par visiting us in her transition to the next life.
Was this her way to finally see us again?
I watched my grandparent's girl from the photos we receive from vietnam,
and i kept schooled my cousins.
Sometimes i would imagine where i'd be standing if i was there,
too.
Now that i have my own child,
i can really see how lucky she used to have all her grandparents and great grandparents to play with.